Update README positioning for researchers (#6411)
PennyLaneAI/pennylane: README.md

</p>

<p align="center">
  The definitive open-source Python framework for quantum programming. Built by researchers, for research.

>   <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/master/doc/_static/header.png#gh-light-mode-only" width="700px">

Author: This image has a few implications since there requires a dark and light mode version (which the current image supports both). Tarik suggested this image:
![PL logo](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/4a902c36-75b2-443c-b917-a827a60d8d28)
Though, it will require a version for light-mode.

To avoid delaying this PR further, I will merge as-is and aim to update this image with @tarik-elkhateeb shortly after.

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/master/doc/_static/code.png" width="400px" align="right">

> - <strong>*Program quantum computers*</strong>. Build quantum circuits with a wide range of state preparations, gates, and measurements. Run on [high-performance simulators](https://pennylane.ai/performance/) or various hardware devices, with advanced features like mid-circuit measurements and error mitigation.

Reviewer: 'various hardware devices' could have a link to the devices page

Author: Agreed! Just updated this, https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6411/commits/b999c3a9430703c5ce1994e425ee264ece96e728

> - <strong>*Integrate with machine learning*</strong>. Integrate with **PyTorch**, **TensorFlow**, **JAX**, **Keras**, or **NumPy** to define and train hybrid models using quantum-aware optimizers and hardware-compatible gradients for advanced research tasks. [Quantum machine learning quickstart](https://docs.pennylane.ai/en/stable/introduction/interfaces.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- <strong>*Machine learning with quantum hardware and simulators*</strong>. Integrate with **PyTorch**, **TensorFlow**, **JAX**, **Keras**, or **NumPy** to define and train hybrid models using quantum-aware optimizers and hardware-compatible gradients for advanced research tasks. [Quantum machine learning quickstart](https://docs.pennylane.ai/en/stable/introduction/interfaces.html).
```

> - <strong>*Master quantum algorithms*</strong>. From NISQ applications like VQE to fault-tolerant quantum computing, unlock algorithms for research and application. Analyze performance, visualize circuits, and access tools for [quantum chemistry](https://docs.pennylane.ai/en/stable/introduction/chemistry.html) and QAOA. Scale up with circuit cutting and explore pulse-level and qutrit representations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- <strong>*Master quantum algorithms*</strong>. From NISQ applications like VQE to fault-tolerant quantum computing, unlock algorithms for research and application. Analyze performance, visualize circuits, and access tools for [quantum chemistry](https://docs.pennylane.ai/en/stable/introduction/chemistry.html) and [algorithm development](https://pennylane.ai/search/?contentType=DEMO&categories=algorithms&sort=publication_date).

```

> - <strong>*Quantum datasets*</strong>. Access high-quality, pre-simulated datasets to decrease time-to-research and accelerate algorithm development. Easily [browse the datasets](https://pennylane.ai/datasets/) or contribute your own data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- <strong>*Quantum datasets*</strong>. Access high-quality, pre-simulated datasets to decrease time-to-research and accelerate algorithm development. [Browse the datasets](https://pennylane.ai/datasets/) or contribute your own data.

```

> - <strong>*Compilation and performance*</strong>. Capture hybrid quantum-classical workflows with just-in-time compilation, scaling from CPU to GPU. Decompose circuits into hardware-compatible gates and access high-performance simulators with fast quantum circuit differentiation. Easily install via pip, Conda, Spack, or Docker. See [Catalyst](https://github.com/pennylaneai/catalyst) for more details.

Reviewer: @justinpickering I would probably leave this description the same as the previous "Just in time compilation" bullet point

Author: Sounds good, just reverted back to the old description (https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6411/commits/989302defb042d5edf1e76406f0a60ae5209afac) :+1:

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/master/doc/_static/code.png" width="400px" align="right">

- <strong>*Program quantum computers*</strong>. Build quantum circuits with a wide range of state preparations, gates, and measurements. Run on [high-performance simulators](https://pennylane.ai/performance/) or [various hardware devices](https://pennylane.ai/plugins/), with advanced features like mid-circuit measurements and error mitigation.

> - <strong>*Machine learning with quantum hardware and simulators*</strong>. Integrate with **PyTorch**, **TensorFlow**, **JAX**, **Keras**, or **NumPy** to define and train hybrid models using quantum-aware optimizers and hardware-compatible gradients for advanced research tasks. [Quantum machine learning quickstart](https://docs.pennylane.ai/en/stable/introduction/interfaces.html).

Reviewer 2: I would reverse the order between QML and Q algos and put quantum first. Our focus in PL is less on differentiable programming and more on meaningful algorithms

Author: Thanks @ixfoduap - this was updated in https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6411/commits/c33e5911cd39d2e2c6d95fb2d4fb4bb585e214da . Let me know if that looks OK.

> - <strong>*Master quantum algorithms*</strong>. From NISQ applications like VQE to fault-tolerant quantum computing, unlock algorithms for research and application. Analyze performance, visualize circuits, and access tools for [quantum chemistry](https://docs.pennylane.ai/en/stable/introduction/chemistry.html) and [algorithm development](https://pennylane.ai/search/?contentType=DEMO&categories=algorithms&sort=publication_date).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- <strong>*Master quantum algorithms*</strong>. From NISQ to fault-tolerant quantum computing, unlock algorithms for research and application. Analyze performance, visualize circuits, and access tools for [quantum chemistry](https://docs.pennylane.ai/en/stable/introduction/chemistry.html) and [algorithm development](https://pennylane.ai/search/?contentType=DEMO&categories=algorithms&sort=publication_date).

```

- <strong>*Quantum datasets*</strong>. Access high-quality, pre-simulated datasets to decrease time-to-research and accelerate algorithm development. [Browse the datasets](https://pennylane.ai/datasets/) or contribute your own data.

- <strong>*Compilation and performance*</strong>. Experimental support for just-in-time
  compilation. Compile your entire hybrid workflow, with support for 
  advanced features such as adaptive circuits, real-time measurement 
  feedback, and unbounded loops. See
  [Catalyst](https://github.com/pennylaneai/catalyst) for more details.

> Visit the [PennyLane features page](https://pennylane.ai/features/) for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more details and additional features, please see the [PennyLane website](https://pennylane.ai/features/).
```

## Docker support

Docker images are found on the [PennyLane Docker Hub page](https://hub.docker.com/u/pennylaneai), where there is also a detailed description about PennyLane Docker support. [See description here](https://docs.pennylane.ai/projects/lightning/en/stable/dev/docker.html) for more information.

## Getting started

Get up and running quickly with PennyLane by following our [quickstart guide](https://docs.pennylane.ai/en/stable/introduction/pennylane.html), designed to introduce key features and help you start building quantum circuits right away.

Whether you're exploring quantum machine learning (QML), quantum computing, or quantum chemistry, PennyLane offers a wide range of tools and resources to support your research:

> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/master/doc/_static/readme/gpu_to_qpu.png" align="right" width="400px">

Reviewer: @justinpickering is there a plan to update this graphic?

Author: @josh146 - @tarik-elkhateeb suggested this image (with transparent background) :) 

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/58bfd0f8-c1c9-455f-a365-10bd75945f7e)

### Key Resources:

> * [Learn quantum programming](https://pennylane.ai/qml/)
> * [PennyLane Codebook](https://pennylane.ai/codebook/)
> * [Coding challenges](https://pennylane.ai/challenges/)
> * [Demos](https://pennylane.ai/qml/demonstrations.html)
> * [Frequently asked questions](https://pennylane.ai/faq.html)
> * [Key concepts](https://pennylane.ai/qml/glossary.html)
> * [Videos](https://pennylane.ai/qml/videos.html)

Reviewer: I would re-order these to put the research-heavy ones first:

```suggestion
* [Research-oriented demos](https://pennylane.ai/qml/demonstrations.html)
* [Learn quantum programming](https://pennylane.ai/qml/) with the [PennyLane Codebook](https://pennylane.ai/codebook/) and [Coding challenges](https://pennylane.ai/challenges/)
* [Frequently asked questions](https://pennylane.ai/faq.html)
* [Key concepts](https://pennylane.ai/qml/glossary.html)
* [Videos](https://pennylane.ai/qml/videos.html)
```

Author: Thanks for the suggestion, Josh!

You can also check out our [documentation](https://pennylane.readthedocs.io) for [quickstart
guides](https://pennylane.readthedocs.io/en/stable/introduction/pennylane.html) to using PennyLane,
and detailed developer guides on [how to write your
own](https://pennylane.readthedocs.io/en/stable/development/plugins.html) PennyLane-compatible
quantum device.

## Demos

Take a deeper dive into quantum computing by exploring cutting-edge algorithms using PennyLane and quantum hardware. [Explore PennyLane demos](https://pennylane.ai/qml/demonstrations.html).

<a href="https://pennylane.ai/qml/demonstrations">
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/master/doc/_static/readme/demos.png" width="900px">

> </a>

Reviewer: @justinpickering is there a plan to update this graphic?

Author: @josh146  Yes, it has been updated in this PR with the updated /search card view for the demos. Ran by Tarik, who approved :+1:

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/45bc9163-353e-4d36-bbcb-f9eb4d1f506e)

If you would like to contribute your own demo, see our [demo submission
guide](https://pennylane.ai/qml/demos_submission).

## Research Applications

> PennyLane is at the forefront of research in quantum computing, quantum machine learning, and quantum chemistry. Discover how researchers are using PennyLane.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PennyLane is at the forefront of research in quantum computing, quantum machine learning, and quantum chemistry. Explore how PennyLane is used for research in the following publications:
```

- **Quantum Computing**: [Fast quantum circuit cutting with randomized measurements](https://quantum-journal.org/papers/q-2023-03-02-934/)

- **Quantum Machine Learning**: [Better than classical? The subtle art of benchmarking quantum machine learning models](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.07059)

- **Quantum Chemistry**: [Accelerating Quantum Computations of Chemistry Through Regularized Compressed Double Factorization](https://quantum-journal.org/papers/q-2024-06-13-1371/)

> Impactful research drives PennyLane. Let us know what features you need for your research on [GitHub](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/issues/new?assignees=&labels=enhancement+%3Asparkles%3A&projects=&template=feature_request.yml) or on our [research page](https://pennylane.ai/research).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Impactful research drives PennyLane. Let us know what features you need for your research on [GitHub](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/issues/new?assignees=&labels=enhancement+%3Asparkles%3A&projects=&template=feature_request.yml) or on our [website](https://pennylane.ai/research).
```

I would not call it 'the research page' in marketing -- this is our internal name for it, but we want to emphasize more that the PennyLane website as a whole has what you need/are looking for.

Author: OK, thanks Josh!

* [Coding challenges](https://pennylane.ai/challenges/)
* [Demos](https://pennylane.ai/qml/demonstrations.html)
* [Frequently asked questions](https://pennylane.ai/faq.html)
* [Key concepts](https://pennylane.ai/qml/glossary.html)
* [Videos](https://pennylane.ai/qml/videos.html)

You can also check out our [documentation](https://pennylane.readthedocs.io) for [quickstart
guides](https://pennylane.readthedocs.io/en/stable/introduction/pennylane.html) to using PennyLane,
and detailed developer guides on [how to write your
own](https://pennylane.readthedocs.io/en/stable/development/plugins.html) PennyLane-compatible
quantum device.

## Demos

Take a deeper dive into quantum computing by exploring cutting-edge algorithms using PennyLane and quantum hardware. [Explore PennyLane demos](https://pennylane.ai/qml/demonstrations.html).

<a href="https://pennylane.ai/qml/demonstrations">
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/master/doc/_static/readme/demos.png" width="900px">
</a>

If you would like to contribute your own demo, see our [demo submission
guide](https://pennylane.ai/qml/demos_submission).

## Research Applications

> PennyLane is at the forefront of research in quantum computing, quantum machine learning, and quantum chemistry. Discover how researchers are using PennyLane.

Reviewer: @justinpickering one suggestion for this part of the readme is to simplify it, and not explicitly link papers here, but simply link out to the research page (since the readme will be harder to keep up to date as frequently).

- **Quantum Computing**

>   - *Example Paper*: [Variational quantum algorithm for molecular geometry optimization

Reviewer 2: Not sure this is the best example paper. Also the bottom part has not been updated, just says [lorem ipsum] ...

Reviewer 2: Is there a good covestro paper we could link to instead?

Reviewer: Let's use this one! https://quantum-journal.org/papers/q-2023-03-02-934/

Author: Thanks @josh146 - I've replaced it with your suggested paper. (https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6411/commits/7ec92d2fac94ecebd7a9b8052a8bb9c25e7df914)

](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.13840)

> - **Quantum Machine Learning**
>   - *Example Paper*: [Better than classical? The subtle art of benchmarking quantum machine learning models](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.07059)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Quantum Machine Learning**: [Better than classical? The subtle art of benchmarking quantum machine learning models](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.07059)
```

For better readability, I might remove the 'example paper'

Author: Thanks for the suggestion, I think that's an improvement. It's been updated https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6411/commits/7ec92d2fac94ecebd7a9b8052a8bb9c25e7df914

- **Quantum Chemistry**
  - *Example Paper*: [Accelerating Quantum Computations of Chemistry Through Regularized Compressed Double Factorization](https://quantum-journal.org/papers/q-2024-06-13-1371/)

> Impactful research drives PennyLane. Submit your feature ideas on our [research page](https://pennylane.ai/research) to tailor our roadmap to your research needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Impactful research drives PennyLane. Let us know what features you need for your research on [GitHub](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/issues/new?assignees=&labels=enhancement+%3Asparkles%3A&projects=&template=feature_request.yml) on on our [research page](https://pennylane.ai/research).
```

Author: Thanks!

>   - *Example Paper*: [Accelerating Quantum Computations of Chemistry Through Regularized Compressed Double Factorization](https://quantum-journal.org/papers/q-2024-06-13-1371/)

Reviewer 2: Does this paper use pennylane? :thinking:

Author: > Does this paper use pennylane? 🤔

I'm unsure, though this is one that we had planned to go on the new Research page, in the `Research papers using PennyLane` section. See [Copy Deck](https://www.notion.so/xanaduai/Research-Page-Copy-Deck-118bc6bd17648047b47efb12805620df?pvs=4#118bc6bd1764805d9127fbb970511753). 
@Lorraine-at-Xanadu do you know if this paper uses PL? I could only find a mention of PennyLane in the references of the paper.

@ixfoduap - do you have any suggestions for examples of papers under Quantum Chemistry that use PL? Could the [Variational quantum algorithm for molecular geometry optimization](https://journals.aps.org/pra/abstract/10.1103/PhysRevA.104.052402) be suitable here?

Reviewer: Let me ask.

Reviewer: As far as I understand this paper does use PL:

> We compute the needed derivatives by means of a fully auto-differentiable code
that computes the variances as a function of the ct
k [29, 36, 41]

citing PL, Autograd, and JAX.

## Getting started

Get up and running quickly with PennyLane by following our [quickstart guide](https://docs.pennylane.ai/en/stable/introduction/pennylane.html), designed to introduce key features and help you start building quantum circuits right away.

Whether you're exploring quantum machine learning (QML), quantum computing, or quantum chemistry, PennyLane offers a wide range of tools and resources to support your research:

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/master/doc/_static/readme/gpu_to_qpu.png" align="right" width="400px">

### Key Resources:

* [Learn quantum programming](https://pennylane.ai/qml/)
* [PennyLane Codebook](https://pennylane.ai/codebook/)
* [Coding challenges](https://pennylane.ai/challenges/)
* [Demos](https://pennylane.ai/qml/demonstrations.html)
* [Frequently asked questions](https://pennylane.ai/faq.html)
* [Key concepts](https://pennylane.ai/qml/glossary.html)

> * [Videos](https://pennylane.ai/qml/videos.html)

Reviewer: nice!

<a href="https://pennylane.ai/qml/demonstrations.html">
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/master/doc/_static/readme/demos.png" width="900px">
</a>

If you would like to contribute your own demo, see our [demo submission
guide](https://pennylane.ai/qml/demos_submission.html).

## Research Applications

PennyLane is at the forefront of research in quantum computing, quantum machine learning, and quantum chemistry. Discover how researchers are using PennyLane.

- **Quantum Computing**
  - *Example Paper*: [Variational quantum algorithm for molecular geometry optimization
](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.13840)
  - *Collaborative Research*: Research with [lorem ipsum] on optimizing...

- **Quantum Machine Learning**
  - *Case Study*: [Classical surrogates for quantum learning models](https://arxiv.org/abs/2206.11740)

- **Quantum Chemistry**
  - *Example Paper*: [Accelerating Quantum Computations of Chemistry Through Regularized Compressed Double Factorization](https://quantum-journal.org/papers/q-2024-06-13-1371/)

> Impactful research drives PennyLane. Submit your feature ideas to tailor our roadmap to your research needs[LINK TO RESEARCH PAGE - UNRELEASED]

Reviewer: maybe it's better to leave this section out until we have this information on the website we can link to?

Author: Yes, we can. The Research page is expected to be released in about two weeks, so we could even align this update with that release if we choose to. cc @Lorraine-at-Xanadu

Author: Update: We will release this README with the Research page release next week, therefore we can add links to it.

```suggestion
- **Quantum Computing**
  - *Example Paper*: [Variational quantum algorithm for molecular geometry optimization
](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.13840)

- **Quantum Machine Learning**
  - *Example Paper*: [Better than classical? The subtle art of benchmarking quantum machine learning models](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.07059)

- **Quantum Chemistry**
  - *Example Paper*: [Accelerating Quantum Computations of Chemistry Through Regularized Compressed Double Factorization](https://quantum-journal.org/papers/q-2024-06-13-1371/)

Impactful research drives PennyLane. Submit your feature ideas on our [research page](https://pennylane.ai/research) to tailor our roadmap to your research needs.

```

## Getting started

Get up and running quickly with PennyLane by following our [quickstart guide](https://docs.pennylane.ai/en/stable/introduction/pennylane.html), designed to introduce key features and help you start building quantum circuits right away.

Whether you're exploring quantum machine learning (QML), quantum computing, or quantum chemistry, PennyLane offers a wide range of tools and resources to support your research:

> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/master/doc/_static/readme/gpu_to_qpu.png" align="right" width="400px">

Author: Thanks @Lorraine-at-Xanadu - see [earlier comment in thread from Josh's feedback](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6411#discussion_r1829343346). Tarik suggested the following image:
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ed20e80f-82ba-4690-835e-a596890c4c26)

I'll run it by him if he prefers the one you suggested.

> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/master/doc/_static/readme/gpu_to_qpu.png" align="right" width="400px">

Author: Confirmed that we will use the research image you suggested Lorraine. It has been updated, thanks! :)

### Key Resources:

* [Learn quantum programming](https://pennylane.ai/qml/)

> * [PennyLane Codebook](https://pennylane.ai/codebook/)

Author: Thanks @Lorraine-at-Xanadu - I've updated the file.

* [Coding challenges](https://pennylane.ai/challenges/)
* [Demos](https://pennylane.ai/qml/demonstrations.html)
* [Frequently asked questions](https://pennylane.ai/faq.html)

> * [Key concepts](https://pennylane.ai/qml/glossary.html)

Author: Thanks @Lorraine-at-Xanadu - I've updated the file.

* [Videos](https://pennylane.ai/qml/videos.html)

You can also check out our [documentation](https://pennylane.readthedocs.io) for [quickstart
guides](https://pennylane.readthedocs.io/en/stable/introduction/pennylane.html) to using PennyLane,
and detailed developer guides on [how to write your
own](https://pennylane.readthedocs.io/en/stable/development/plugins.html) PennyLane-compatible
quantum device.

## Demos

Take a deeper dive into quantum computing by exploring cutting-edge algorithms using PennyLane and quantum hardware. [Explore PennyLane demos](https://pennylane.ai/qml/demonstrations.html).

<a href="https://pennylane.ai/qml/demonstrations.html">

>   <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/master/doc/_static/readme/demos.png" width="900px">

Author: Thanks @Lorraine-at-Xanadu - see [earlier comment in thread from Josh's feedback](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6411#discussion_r1831179709). The image was replaced with the modern search page demo cards. Approved by @tarik-elkhateeb.
The README 'preview' is still outdated, since the image link requires the push to master to appear. Preview image below.
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/af4d581a-80f4-411e-bf5d-3373cb726329)

If you are having issues, please let us know by posting the issue on our GitHub issue tracker.

> Join the [PennyLane Discussion Forum](https://discuss.pennylane.ai/) to connect with the quantum community, get support, and engage directly with our team. It’s the perfect place to share ideas, ask questions, and collaborate with fellow researchers and developers!

Reviewer: Nice!
